# ###3D-Protein###

# Introduction
A crack at OpenGL and a final push with C++, programming a graphics engine that takes a .pdb file (protein data bank) as input, procedurally interpreting atoms (and bonds through bond threshold mathematics), and then rendering them as points and lines with atom specific colours.

# Controls
Packaged also is input mechanics, with WASD controlling X and Z dimensional positioning (L-Shift and SPACEBAR for Y dimensional positioning), and the arrow keys controlling X/Y camera rotation (no gimbal-lock in my house, Euler). Additionally, pressing B and M toggles visibility for the calculated bonds and the atoms respectively, with ^ and v on the numpad controlling the thickness of what's rendered. It is recommended for smaller molecules to play around with the bond toggle and up the thickness, but for larger stuff, disable bonds and have smaller atoms for visibility and performance. Tab triggers the file open dialogue in the command prompt. Performance and Perspective mode can be switched with 'P', rendering realistic atomic size and depth at the cost of performance (it is advised to not use this on large molecules, like ATP Synthase).

# Files
The source code contains the Protein and Renderer header files, which are inherited into Protein.c++ and Renderer.c++. Protein.c++ contains the atom and bond struct, utilising a protein class containing the necessary functions to parse the .PDB file, utilising the structs to hold the data in a usable container which is then appended to the atoms and bonds vectors. Also, in Protein.c++ is an override function that calculates the distance between two atoms in three-dimensional space, and stores it as a vector, allowing another part of the parsing method to accurately calculate relative to each atoms bond threshold where all the bonds in a molecule would be. To avoid O(n)<sup>2</sup> time complexity with the nested for loop, atoms outside of the bond threshold distance are skipped entirely with a 'continue;' statement.

Renderer.c++ is far more complex, handling the OpenGL functions, and taking four variables: protein, draw_bonds, draw_atoms, thickness, and depth. The values of these determine what is and isn't drawn, and how it is drawn on screen, but this is the simple part. A for loop for every record in the bonds vector runs through each struct entry, using the XYZ position of both the atoms in each one as a position for point one and two of the bond, drawing them exactly where they should be after having been calculated in Protein.c++. Once this is done, it does a similar thing, drawing each atom, but either as a quadric (depth) or a point (no depth) depending on the depth bool.

Main.c++ acts as a conductor between the other two files, establishing a master window and camera functionality in the main() initializer, and running a while loop that detects inputs responsible for camera and molecule controls, calling Protein.draw_protein() every run of the loop, to ensure an up-to-date, real time view of the molecule is in order.

# Build
The executable, and each of the .dll's are required for this program to function correctly, given the dependencies of the OpenGL and GLM libraries that make this possible. Each of the sample files are tested and proven to work with the current build, but (theoretically) any .PDB from the Protein Data Bank website can be rendered by this program. This project is not licenced, utilising open-source tools, and is free for everyone to use for personal or educational purposes.
